Welcome my friend to today's
lecture on coding decoding.
Let's decode this concept like
detectives concept explanation.
So coding, decoding, it's
like a secret language, right?
You take a message, turn it into a
secret code that's coding, then you
take that secret code and convert
it back to its original form.
That's decoding simple, isn't it?
This whole topic is basically
checking your brain super.
Power.
Can you find the hidden rule or pattern?
And once you find it, can
you use it for new words?
It's all about logical thinking, keeping
your eyes peel like a hawk, and of
course, knowing your ABCs inside out.
Real world relevance.
Now, why should you care
about this, my friend?
Imagine you become a
big officer in the bank.
You'll be looking at encrypted financial
data, transaction codes, and all
sorts of confidential information.
If you are good at coding decoding, you
can quickly crack those complex patterns.
This means accuracy, security,
and catching fraud like a pro.
Think of it as your secret
weapon in the banking world.
Breakdown of question types
based on past reasoning ability,
exam patterns for your exam.
These are the typical questions
you'll face in coding decoding.
First up, we have letter coding.
This is your bread and butter,
the most common type occurring
with a 30 40% frequency.
Here, letters of a word are replaced by
other letters following a special rule.
This rule could be simple shifting
letters forward or backward in the
alphabet, or it could be a bit sneaky.
Skipping letters or even using
those cool opposite letters, you
know, A for Z, B for Y, like that.
Next comes number slash symbol coding.
This one pops up about 20, 25% of the
time words are turned into numbers.
Or symbols are sometimes a mix of both.
The code might be based on alphabetical
position A is one, B is two.
All the way to Z is 26.
Or it could be the sum of those positions
or even a direct straightforward mapping
of letters to specific numbers or symbols.
No rocket science, just observation.
Then we have the famous mixed coding,
sometimes called Chinese coding.
This one has a frequency of 20, 30%.
In this type, you'll get a few
sentences with words and their coded
forms, which can be quite a mix of
numbers, symbols, or different words.
Your job is to play detective comparing
multiple statements where some words
and their codes overlap to figure out
what each individual word stands for.
It's like solving a puzzle.
Quite fun actually.
After that, we have substitution
coding appearing 10 to 15% of the time.
This is where things get a bit playful.
They'll tell you something like
if white is called blue, and
blue is called red, and so on.
Then they ask a question based
on this chain of substitutions.
Your main task is to stick to the
chain given and not overthink it.
Finally, the niche, one,
condition-based coding showing
up only five to 10% of the time.
Here they give you a set of numbers.
Letters or symbols, along with specific
conditions for how to code them.
You just have to apply these conditions
one by one to decode the given sequence.
It's like following a
recipe, formulas and tricks.
Now for the GaN part, the formulas and
tricks that will make your life easier.
First alphabetical positions forward.
You must memorize these my friend.
A is one, B is two, C is three.
All the way to Z is 26.
A super handy trick here is the E JT rule.
E is five, J is 10, O
is 15, T is 20, Y is 25.
This rule is like a quick mental bookmark.
Use it for quick reference.
Then we have alphabetical
positions reverse.
Sometimes the code goes backwards.
Z is one, Y is two, X is three.
All the way to A is 26.
Get familiar with this too, and
don't forget your opposite letters.
These are super important.
Remember them with little mnemonics,
A Z like Azad, BY, like by.
CX like crux, DW like dw,
EV, like even FU like fun.
Gt like gt road.
HS like high school.
Ir like Indian railways.
JQ like jack, K, p like kur,
LO like love, MN like man.
A quick tip here.
The sum of positions of
opposite letters is always 27.
For example, A one plus Z 26 equals 27.
Isn't that neat?
Now, let's look at some common
coding patterns you'll encounter.
Shifting.
This is when letters are simply shifted
by a fixed number of positions, either
forward plus N or backward minus n
alternating shift a slightly more.
Complex cousin, where letters
are shifted by different values,
perhaps plus N, then minus M, then
plus B, and so on, reverse order.
Super simple.
The entire word is just written
backwards, opposite letters.
Each letter is replaced by its opposite
letter, W slash consonant specific.
This is where things get interesting.
Vowels might follow one rule.
While consonants follow another grouping
slash swapping letters within a word
might be swapped in pairs or small groups.
Number value letters are
directly converted to their
numerical positional values.
Methods of solving.
All right, let's talk strategy.
How do you actually solve these?
Analyze the given code first step one.
Always identify your
input and output clearly.
Write down the original word
or message and it's coded form.
No confusion there.
Then step two for letter coding.
Examine the letter to
letter correspondence.
Compare each letter of the original
word with its counterpart in the code.
Next step three, check
for positional changes.
Note if letters moved forward or backward.
You can even write down the numerical
shift, like A to B is plus one or A
to Z. Could be minus one or even plus
25 if you cycle around after that.
Step four, look for fixed patterns.
See if the shift is the same for every
letter or if it alternates, like plus
one, then minus one, then plus one again.
Then step five, check for
opposite letters or reverse order.
Is it simply the opposite letter, or
is the word just spelled backward?
Finally, step six.
If numbers or symbols are involved,
consider number symbol mapping check
if they correspond to alphabetical
positions, counts, or perhaps a direct
substitution for mixed Chinese coding.
It's a systematic approach.
First step one, write down all the
given statements and their coded forms.
Don't skip this.
It helps organize your thoughts.
Then step two, identify common words.
Look for words that pop up
in more than one sentence.
Simultaneously.
Step three, identify common codes.
Check for codes that appear
in the corresponding coded
forms of those sentences.
Next step four, eliminate and isolate.
By comparing sentences, you can eliminate
the common words and their codes.
Whatever remains unique in a sentence will
correspond to the remaining unique code.
And finally, step five, deduce all codes.
Keep repeating this process
until you figured out the code.
For every unique word, patience is key.
Here, my friend.
For substitution coding,
it's a bit different.
First step one, understand
the chain of substitutions.
Note down the sequence carefully.
Like A is called B. B is called
C. C is called D. Then step.
Two, identify the target.
What exactly is the question asking for?
For example, what is a dog called?
And finally, step three,
trace the substitution.
Find the original term in your
substitution chain, and then
just locate what it is called.
If dog is called cat, then
the answer is simply cat.
Don't go beyond that direct substitution.
All right, no extra GaN needed.
Shortcuts and smart techniques.
All right, my friend time for some
jugar, some clever shortcuts and smart
techniques to save you precious time.
First memorize alphabetical positions.
Seriously, knowing both
forward and reverse positions
instantly is a huge time saver.
Practice writing them down quickly,
perhaps two, three times before your exam.
It really helps.
Keep an opposite letter stable,
either mentally or quickly
jotted down A to ZBY, and so on.
This will cut down your thinking time.
Try pattern visualization
instead of meticulously
writing out every single step.
Try to mentally visualize
the shifts or patterns.
It's like a mental shortcut.
Always check first and last letters.
Often the pattern for the first
and last letters gives you a
big hint about the overall code.
It's a good starting point.
Sometimes the code might relate
to the count letters or numbers.
It could be the number of letters in a
word or even the sum of their positions.
Don't overlook these simpler patterns
for multiple choice questions.
Always use the process of elimination.
If you can deduce even a small
part of the code, use it to
knock out incorrect options.
Smart, isn't it?
In more complex letter coding,
look for VL or consonant patterns.
Sometimes VLS and consonants
follow completely different rules,
so keep an eye out for that.
And always focus on change.
When you compare the original word and
its code, don't just see what's there.
Pay attention to what
changed and how it changed.
That's where the secret lies,
common mistakes and misconceptions.
Now let's talk about the pitfalls.
The places where most friends stumble.
Avoid these, my friend.
First, incorrect alphabetical counting.
This is a classic miscalculating
shifts like treating A to
Z to A as a plus one shift.
Remember, the alphabet wraps around
A to Z could be minus one or plus 25.
Be careful with those jumps.
Then mixing forward and reverse positions.
You might use forward positions
when reverse is needed or vice versa
without even realizing the pattern.
Stay alert.
Many friends tend to
overcomplicate simple patterns.
Sometimes the code is just
super straightforward, a simple
reverse, or a constant shift.
Don't go looking for overly
complex rules unnecessarily.
Keep it simple, silly.
A big one is missing alternating patterns.
Failing to identify if the shift or rule
alternates for odd or even positions
or for different types of letters.
These patterns can be a bit sneaky
and in errors in mixed coding.
It's easy to get confused when comparing
multiple statements in Chinese coding.
This often leads to
incorrect isolation of codes.
Take it one step at a time.
Compare systematically, and please,
please, please don't make the
mistake of ignoring the question.
You might decode everything
correctly, but then answer the
wrong part of the question.
For example, you decode for
bright when the question asked
for dark, read the question twice.
Finally, applying rule
inconsistently once you found a rule.
Apply it strictly to all letters
or numbers of the target word.
Don't change your mind.
Halfway.
WH Framework summary.
Let's quickly summarize this
concept using our WH framework.
So what is coding decoding?
It's a clever process of transforming
messages into secret codes and
then converting them back again.
Why do we study it?
Well, it tests your logical reasoning.
Analytical skills and your ability to
spot patterns all crucial for your exam.
When is it applied?
It's used in scenarios that need
encryption, decryption, and generally
problem solving based on predefined rules.
Where does it come up?
It's a core topic in the
reasoning ability, sections of
competitive exams, especially
for banking and government jobs.
Very important for you.
Who needs to understand this?
Friends preparing for competitive exams.
Intelligence analysts may be
your future calling and anyone
who needs to decipher patterns.
And how do you crack it?
By identifying the hidden rule,
whether it's a shift, a substitution,
or position based between the
original and coded forms, and then
applying that rule, simple as that.
Fully worked out.
Examples.
All right my friend.
Let's get down to some real
with fully worked out examples.
Example, one letter coding,
fixed shift question.
In a certain code language
teacher is coded as.
V-G-C-E-J-G-T how will student
be coded in the same language?
A-U-V-W-F-G-P-V-B-U-R-W-G-E
P-U-C-T-V-W-F-G-P-U-D-R-U-V-E-H-G-V
understand the question
before moving to explanation.
Solution.
Step one, analyze the pattern
between teacher and V-G-C-E-J-G-T.
Let's look at the position of each
letter in the alphabet and its
coded counterpart, T 22, V 22.
Plus two.
E five to G seven plus two, A one to
C, three plus two C3 to E five plus two
H eight to J 10 plus two, E five to G
seven plus two R 18 to T 20 plus two.
Step two, identify the coding rule.
Aha.
The consistent pattern,
my friend, is that.
Each letter in the original word
is shifted forward by exactly
two positions in the alphabet to
get its coded letter Easy peasy.
Step three, apply the same rule to
student S 19 two s plus two equals
U. 20 1D, 20 2D plus two equals V
22 U 21, 2 U plus two equals W 20
3D four 2D plus two equals F six, E
five, two E plus two equals G seven.
N 14 two N plus two equals P
16 T 22 T plus two equals V 22.
Step four, combine the coded
letters so student will be coded
as U-V-W-F-G-P-V, correct answer is
A-U-V-W-F-G-P-V example, two number
symbol coding, positional value and sum.
Question in a certain code language.
If bat is coded as 20 and gat is
coded as 24, then how will MAT
be coded in the same language?
A 28 B 26 C 30 D 34?
Understand the question before
moving to explanation solution.
Step one, analyze the
pattern for bat coded as 20.
Let's first find the
alphabetical positions of
letters in BAT B two A one T 20.
The sum of positions is two
plus one plus 20 equals 23.
Hmm.
This is not 20.
Something's a bit off here.
Let's see if there's
a slight modification.
Perhaps only the last letters
value is taken, or maybe
the sum of specific letters.
If we consider bat
coded as 20 and T is 20.
If we consider cat coded as 24
and T is still 20, this makes us
think the code might be related
to the last letters position, but
modified by the other letters.
Now, let's assume the code is
simply the sum of alphabetical
positions like we tried.
If the sum is 23 for bat, but the code
is 20, the difference is minus three.
Let's check CAT using the sum idea.
C3 A one T 20.
Sum of positions three
plus one plus 20 equals 24.
Wow.
This matches the given code 24 perfectly.
Step two, identify the coding rule.
Aha.
The rule is crystal clear, my friend.
The code for a word is the sum of
alphabetical positions of all its letters.
Simple, wasn't it?
We just had to check the
second example to confirm.
Step three, apply the same rule to MAT.
Let's find the alphabetical positions
of letters in MATM 13 A one T 20.
The sum of positions is 13
plus one plus 20 equals 34.
Step four, combine the result.
So MAT will be coded as
34, correct Answer is D 34.
Example three mixed coding,
Chinese coding question.
In a certain code language,
paid sunna means you are good.
Sue Casa means good and bad.
Na pay means they are friends.
Which of the following means friends
in that code language A, NA B, the
C, pay D two understand the question
before moving to explanation solution.
Step one, write down all
the given statements and
their coded forms statement.
One page soon.
Na equals.
You are good.
Statement two.
Two.
Casa equals good and bad statement three.
Na pay equals they are friends.
Step two, compare statement
one and statement two to
find common words and codes.
Look closely my friend.
The common word between statement
one and statement two is good.
The common code between statement one and
statement two is Sue, so good equals sue.
Easy deduction.
Step three, compare statement
one and statement three to
find common words and codes.
Now, let's compare statement
one and statement three.
The common word between statement
one and statement three is R.
The common code between statement
one and statement three is pay.
So R equals pay another
one down, step four.
Now we need the code for friends.
Look at statement three.
Statement three says, ADA
pay equals they are friends.
We already know.
R equals pay.
Now let's substitute pay
for R in statement three.
Nada.
Equals they friends.
Step five.
To find friends, we need to isolate
the, we don't have enough information
to isolate the specifically from friends
by comparing just these two, but we
can definitely see the remaining words
and codes from statement three after
removing R, which is pay remaining words.
They and friends Remaining codes are
na and the now we need to check if
NA or the appeared somewhere else to
figure this out, let's look at Na.
Na appears in statement one.
Paid sue na equals you are good.
Since we already reduced that,
pay is r and sue is good.
Then by elimination na must mean you.
So na equals you.
Step six.
Now go back to statement three.
Statement three was na, the
pay equals they are friends.
We know na equals you pay equals R.
Substituting these back into statement
three, you the R equals they are friends.
This clearly implies that
the must be equal to friends.
Mystery solved correct
answer is be the thank you.
See you in the next lecture.